README.md, before:

# [title]

Objective

Statistical Analysis for PERSON (PLACE, yyyy)

## Analyses performed

1. Descriptive analysis
1. Inferential analysis
1. Power analysis
1. Missing data imputation
1. Statistical models

## Documents

### Analytical Plan (SAP)

<!-- - [Online visualization][sapviz-v02] -->
<!-- - [PDF][sappdf-v02] -->

- [Online visualization][sapviz-v01]
- [PDF][sappdf-v01]

### Statistical Analysis Report (SAR)

<!-- - [Online visualization][reportviz-v02] -->
<!-- - [PDF][pdf-v02] -->

- [Online visualization][reportviz-v01]
- [PDF][pdf-v01]

<!-- ## Associated analyses -->

<!-- This analysis is part of a larger project and is supported by other analyses, linked below. -->

<!-- **[assoc_title]** -->

<!-- <[assoc_link]> -->

## Portfolio

This analysis is included in the consultant's portfolio.
Other analyses performed can also be seen at:

<https://philsf-biostat.github.io/>

<!-- --- -->

[sapviz-v01]: report/SAP-2022-010-GJ-v01.md
[sapviz-v02]: report/SAP-2022-010-GJ-v02.md
[sappdf-v01]: https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://github.com/philsf-biostat/SAR-2022-010-GJ/raw/main/report/SAP-2022-010-GJ-v01.pdf
[sappdf-v02]: https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://github.com/philsf-biostat/SAR-2022-010-GJ/raw/main/report/SAP-2022-010-GJ-v02.pdf

[reportviz-v01]: report/SAR-2022-010-GJ-v01.md
[reportviz-v02]: report/SAR-2022-010-GJ-v02.md
[pdf-v01]: https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://github.com/philsf-biostat/SAR-2022-010-GJ/raw/main/report/SAR-2022-010-GJ-v01.pdf
[pdf-v02]: https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://github.com/philsf-biostat/SAR-2022-010-GJ/raw/main/report/SAR-2022-010-GJ-v02.pdf

Commit message:

README (person, place, time, scope, title, objective, assoc)

README.md, after:

# Association between leadership commitment and telework satisfaction at NASA (2020): unweighted sex-adjusted stratified analysis

Quantify the association between leadership commitment and
telework employee satisfaction
at NASA from the 2020 Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey, disregarding the FEVS survey weights.

Statistical Analysis for techsavvy32 (fiverr.com, 2022)

## Analyses performed

1. Descriptive analysis
1. Inferential analysis

## Documents

### Analytical Plan (SAP)

<!-- - [Online visualization][sapviz-v02] -->
<!-- - [PDF][sappdf-v02] -->

- [Online visualization][sapviz-v01]
- [PDF][sappdf-v01]

### Statistical Analysis Report (SAR)

<!-- - [Online visualization][reportviz-v02] -->
<!-- - [PDF][pdf-v02] -->

- [Online visualization][reportviz-v01]
- [PDF][pdf-v01]

## Associated analyses

This analysis is part of a larger project and is supported by other analyses, linked below.

**Association between leadership commitment and professional development at NASA (2020): sex-adjusted stratified analysis**

<https://philsf-biostat.github.io/SAR-2022-008-GJ/>

**Association between leadership commitment and telework satisfaction at NASA (2020): sex-adjusted stratified analysis**

<https://philsf-biostat.github.io/SAR-2022-007-GJ/>

## Portfolio

This analysis is included in the consultant's portfolio.
Other analyses performed can also be seen at:

<https://philsf-biostat.github.io/>

<!-- --- -->

[sapviz-v01]: report/SAP-2022-010-GJ-v01.md
[sapviz-v02]: report/SAP-2022-010-GJ-v02.md
[sappdf-v01]: https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://github.com/philsf-biostat/SAR-2022-010-GJ/raw/main/report/SAP-2022-010-GJ-v01.pdf
[sappdf-v02]: https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://github.com/philsf-biostat/SAR-2022-010-GJ/raw/main/report/SAP-2022-010-GJ-v02.pdf

[reportviz-v01]: report/SAR-2022-010-GJ-v01.md
[reportviz-v02]: report/SAR-2022-010-GJ-v02.md
[pdf-v01]: https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://github.com/philsf-biostat/SAR-2022-010-GJ/raw/main/report/SAR-2022-010-GJ-v01.pdf
[pdf-v02]: https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://github.com/philsf-biostat/SAR-2022-010-GJ/raw/main/report/SAR-2022-010-GJ-v02.pdf
